Name: Andy Kim
Email: akim83@myseneca.ca
Student #: 105945308
Date: 2020-12-11

Reflection

Some main features of HTML Forms and input elements I used to validate user's input were the attributes of input element.
In part 1.1 of the final assessment where I was given a task to modify the index.html to create a HTML Form to allow user
to enter their email address so that they can subscribe to the website. To validate user's input to make sure it is a valid
email address, I created an input element with attribute of type="email" so that input element will only accept input that
matches the type email (i.e. including @ symbol, etc). For part 1.2 of the assessment, I was given a task to create a 
separate html document to create Contact Us page to accept multiple user input that can be submitted to https://httpbin.org/post
using the post method. To validate all 7 entries of user input, when I created an input element for every one of them, I 
included the required attribute inside input tag to make sure user enters the input. Moreover, I specified the type of input
user will be typing such as text, email or radio. One technique I found very useful when validating radio options was that
if I specify the same name for all the radio options, by simply applying required attribute to one of the option, it will 
apply to all of the options and that is how I validated radio options from user. For testing my forms, I purposely entered
invalid values for each entities to see if I can break the code in any possible way. One testcase I performed while debugging
my work was omitting @ symbol in my email inputs to see if I get an error message that would notify me to input correct values.
Without a surprise, with the power of required attribute and type attribute in input element, my code did not break. One bug
I found while debugging my work was the pattern attribute I used in input element for validating user input for postal codes
in Contact Us page. My test cases for postal codes kept failing due to my wrong regular expression that I defined in pattern
attribute inside input element. This was later solved by fixing my regular expression. One advice I would give to other web
developers building forms is proper use of attributes of input elements and understanding when to apply them. Attibutes 
inside input elements are very powerful and the most simple way of validating user's input. From completing the final 
assessment of WEB222, I encountered many different problems. One lesson I learned from this assessment is that I should always
plan ahead before actually writing the code down to better organize the structure and code management.

